# EDA-CApstone
Airbnb is an online marketplace that connects people who want to rent out their homes with people looking for accommodations in that locale. NYC is the most populous city in the United States, and one of the most popular tourism and business places globally. Airbnb would like to understand customers and provider’s behavior and performance on the platform, marketing initiatives, implementation of innovative additional services etc.

Data Structure: The first step was to load the data set with the proper libraries required for executing operations to be performed on the dataset. After loading and reading the data set, basic information was checked. The dataset included about 49000 rows and 16 columns. Dataset having categorical and numerical features contains null values in it. All null values and unwanted columns were removed which were of less importance.

Data Analysis: Airbnb NYC dataset contains variables like price, room_type, neighborhood_group, neighborhood, host_id, availability_365 etc. The dataset values will help in the EDA visualization by giving an idea about price in a particular neighborhood, neighborhood groups, room types, 365 availability of rooms, and preferred room types in a particular area, criteria to select a room, reviews, minimum stay by customers etc. Pivot tables would help to get the top 5 or 10 values or data points with the selected set of features. In addition, plots like scatter plots, joint plots, pair plots will provide insights on the data dataset and heat maps will show how the data points of variables correlate with each other.
